# ALife Paper Review: The World as Evolving Information

[https://arxiv.org/abs/0704.0304](https://arxiv.org/abs/0704.0304)

*Paper review by [Michael Crosscombe](https://twitter.com/m_crosscombe)*

I recently transitioned into Artificial Life research and I have been digging through the digital archives to familiarise myself with some of the exciting ideas in the field. Given my outsider’s perspective, I find that I am most drawn to papers which offer a novel way of thinking about the world and, in doing so, provide a different lens through which we can approach the ongoing problems of the field.

One paper in particular is that of “The World as Evolving Information” by Carlos Gershenson. The author proposes that we adopt metaphors as our common language and then goes on to describe the world at different scales – not in terms of energy and matter, but in terms of information! Beginning simply, information is defined as “anything that an agent can sense, perceive or observe.” After additional notions to define an agent and its environment, it becomes clear why such an approach to thinking about the world is rather powerful. An agent simply acts on its environment (sense and response) and the environment is itself all that which interacts with the agent. From this simple setup, the author then introduces a list of “Tentative Laws of Information” with each law appearing reasonable and intuitive.

While not a solution to all of ALife’s open problems, I do think it is an interesting way to reframe existing problems and assess whether different approaches to tackling them can be taken. Consider, for example, collective behaviour. It is difficult to consider how large swarms of individuals coordinate to produce collective behaviour without considering the forms of information that are shared, propagated, and transformed to achieve said behaviour. We can also begin to consider the scales of these systems: Simplistic individuals are only capable of acting locally, and cannot perceive more complex information globally, such as the current state of the swarm or its coordinated collective behaviour. Yet the swarm, as a more complex entity, seems to be capable of producing more complex information (behaviours) than any one individual is capable of, and reasoning about the relationships between the micro and macro levels are much more intuitive when we think about them within the proposed framework.

A system more easily translated into the world of evolving information may be Cellular Automata (CA). These systems have well-defined, often deterministic rules about how information (the state of a cell) changes based on the information that an agent (the cell itself) can perceive. Such a discrete system should be rather trivial to quantify, but how would something more complex, such as Lenia, translate into the same world? This is far less trivial, but presumably still feasible.

At the end of the paper, frustratingly, the author hints that such a framework could be implemented in simulation. I am curious whether the author has made any progress in this direction; of creating an information-based simulation that implements the tentative laws outlined in the paper.
