# From the Archives - Paper: Artificial Fishes: Autonomous Locomotion, Perception, Behavior, and Learning in a Simulated Physical World
*Written by [Imy](https://twitter.com/imy_tk)

It feels fitting that we continue in the spirit of this month’s newsletter and revisit a (what would now be considered) “classic” paper from the Artificial Life journal on artificial fishes*. This month’s paper, _Artificial Fishes: Autonomous Locomotion, Perception, Behavior, and Learning in a Simulated Physical World__---published in 1995 by Demetri Terzopoulos, Xiaoyuan Tu, and Radek Grzeszczuk----showcases a wonderful piece of work describing their modelling of artificial fishes. That’s… pretty much it.

The authors describe, in striking detail, their bottom-up compositional approach to creating these animats: seeking to model as many components (agents, environment, interactions) and subcomponents (e.g. fish anatomy---muscle, fins, eyes---the physics of their liquid environment, fish behaviours (collision avoidance, foraging, mating, schooling)) with a fairly high degree of realism. In turn, this means that the agents look and act as real as possible, and can provide visually convincing results for those who might be watching these virtual fishes interact with each other and their world. They also endow these fishes with a reinforcement learning algorithm for locomotion, meaning that not only do their agents behave like real fishes, but may also learn, optimise, and adapt in their dynamic environments in the same way that real fishes do. To my mind, this feels like a hugely important aspect of work like this: virtual agents and their (inter)actions need to be as comprehensible as possible to naive audiences: if these virtual fishes are used to understand natural phenomena, then their bodies, brains, and environments should resemble natural systems as closely as possible (see Barbara Webb's _"Animals Versus Animats: Or Why Not Model the Real Iguana?"_ (2009): https://doi.org/10.1177/105971230933986).

I could describe in further detail here how the fishes “live”---they generate intentions or motivations via an “intention generator” based on a set of sensory information, mental states, and an individual fish’s habits (e.g. its preferences for brightness, or temperature of water, or sex of the fish), which in turn generates goals and drives behaviours---but I would encourage you instead to read the details that this paper has to offer. From using photographs of real fish to create 3D geometric models of their virtual counterparts, or their physics-based fish model consisting of 23 nodal point masses and almost 100 springs between them to calculate and generate dynamic and realistic locomotion, this paper does not shy away from exploring a level of granularity and detail required to model a biological agent to a reasonable level of accuracy, whilst finding the balance between computational efficiency and complexity.

What I really like about this paper is that it feels like a sort-of manual for a passion project: basically, “we wanted to create a bunch of artificial fishes, and this is how we did it.” And that feels so quintessentially ALife. To be fair to the authors, they do also mention that the long-term goal of their project  (“[to develop] a computational theory that can potentially account for the interplay of physics, locomotion, perception, behavior, and learning in higher animals”), and they conclude the paper by proposing a number of future research directions and use-cases for artificial fishes (for instance, suggesting that artificial fishes can be a sufficient “proving ground for theories that profess competence at effectively linking perception to action” due to their “unprecedented sophistication”). But I also like that this paper was welcomed as a contribution to the ALife field in spite of any actual research question being proposed or addressed within. It is “just” (and I use that term loosely) about the construction of artificial fishes. Of course, constructing models and virtual agents like this are a necessary first step for further work and can give rise to new research questions, but the fact that this paper stands on its own as (just) a simulation of virtual fishes is inspiring. The answer to the question, "Why did these authors create these artificial fishes?" is simple: because they could.


* Yup. As the authors of the paper state, and much to my surprise, fishes is actually a word. The plural is fish when it refers to multiple fish of a single species, but fishes when it refers to multiple species. 
