# Artificial Life Journal Reference List
*Written by [Imy](https://twitter.com/imy_tk)

For a few years, I have been maintaining a complete reference list of the articles published in the Artificial Life journal since its inception back in 1993. Initially, this was created so that I had a quick way to browse through all articles in the journal on a single page, to filter on specific topics or authors, or to drag-and-drop them into a tool like ResearchRabbit (http://researchrabbit.ai) to conduct further literature searches on specific areas of interest. More recently, it has become a way for me to search for, and find, interesting papers to read and review as part of the (semi-regular) paper review in this very newsletter (see above). But I’m sure that others might also find such a list useful, so I would like to use this opportunity to share it with you all. It is hosted on GitHub (https://github.com/imytk/alife_journal) in a variety of formats (RIS, BibTex, CSV), and it should be compatible with a reference manager of your choice. If you come across any issues, however, please let me know (email below).

I have a (loose) roadmap of updates that I’d like to get through with this, including adding in conference proceedings from previous ISAL conferences along with accompanying videos/supplementary material if they’re available. The more interesting goal right now is to use this dataset to perform a deep dive into the 30 year history of the Artificial Life journal: to look at how the ALife journal has changed and evolved over the year, the breadth, depth and trends of topics covered, and a host of other interesting questions. If you are interested in collaborating on this, please come and chat with me in person at the conference, or email me at imytkhan@gmail.com. 
