# Media Review: "Picture A Scientist" documentary

By Aalok Varma

It’s well-known nowadays that science is riddled with gender stereotyping and undermining the work of female scientists. So much so that when children are asked to draw a scientist, they mostly draw white men in white lab coats. Gender inequality in science has cost not only the women who couldn’t pursue their passion, but also the scientific endeavour as a whole. “Picture A Scientist” follows some trailblazing women who have not only suffered at the hands of inequality, but have also fought back against it.
I would strongly recommend everyone watch this documentary for many reasons. First, it gives a voice to the women who have been either sexually or emotionally harassed by powerful men. Hearing some of the incidents is moving and is perhaps the best way to understand the ground reality of what it’s like to be a woman in science. Second, it provides statistics to appeal to our logical side. Data, after all, is the currency of scientific discourse, and is powerful enough to convince those who don’t want to rely on anecdotal evidence alone. For instance, Nancy Hopkins at MIT, who was denied extra lab space while her junior male colleagues were given larger lab spaces, went about measuring everyone’s lab spaces and provided concrete data to the administration to prove that there was, indeed, systemic gender inequality. It was only then that the administration at MIT took the problem seriously and put in measures to reduce their inequality footprint.
Lastly, I think the documentary provides new information even to those who may be aware of the problem and also its more insidious sides. For instance, I learnt about a psychological test (called the Implicit Association Test) that demonstrates that even those of us who are acutely aware of gender inequality and consciously put in efforts to combat it suffer from unconscious or implicit biases that contribute to the problem. It made me pause and think about how much more ground we have to cover before we really achieve parity, even if we are committed to the cause.
All this might make you think that the documentary is depressing, which is partly true. However, it is also hopeful, because it showcases the solidarity people are showing in addressing the issue and bringing about lasting change. Do check it out. I think it would be a rewarding watch.

