# Conference Review: ACM/IEEE HRI (Human-Robot Interaction) Conference 2022

_Contribution by Imy Khan [(@imy_tk)](https://twitter.com/imy_tk)_

The ACM/IEEE HRI (Human-Robot Interaction) Conference is an annual conference on, as the name suggests, all things related to human and robot interaction. Like ALife, HRI brings together a diverse set of researchers: from computer scientists, AI researchers, roboticists, engineers, psychologists, and behavioural and social scientists. As seems to be the way of many conferences at the moment, this year’s conference was run entirely online, originally moving from its intended location of Sapporo, Japan. This is the third time it has moved online, with next year’s conference hopefully being conducted in-person in Stockholm, Sweden. Here’s hoping…!

The virtual conference itself was hosted using Hopin (www.hopin.com): a platform designed for hosting virtual events. This was my first experience using Hopin, with other conferences using platforms like Zoom, Gather.Town, and so on. Unfortunately, this experience was not a particularly good one. While the HRI conference is, traditionally busy, and attempts to pack in a lot of content over the course of the conference, there just seemed to be too much going on, and Hopin’s interface appeared to be quite clunky when navigating between sessions or finding key information. There were many “virtual stages”, running parallel workshops and special sessions along with an industry expo area, but no clear information on precisely what was happening in any of these stages. There was a persistent chat room embedded into the platform, too. While this seems like a good idea to have, it descended into researchers using it promote their workshops, special sessions, or their submissions, rather than a communal forum for discussion. Quite simply, this didn’t work, despite the fact that it probably should have (bring back IRC!). Overall, I don’t think Hopin was a particularly good platform to use, and it made engagement with some parts of the conference quite frustrating. This is, of course, my own personal opinion on the platform (not a reflection on the conference), and others may have really enjoyed the Hopin experience.

Though the conference overall was excellent, with far too many exciting talks to summarise in a single review, the key highlight for me was in Dr. Friederike Eyssel’s keynote - _“What’s Social about Social Robots? A Psychological Perspective”_. She concluded this talk by talking about research practices in HRI in a post-COVID19 world: that we should recognise that some countries and researchers have bit hit more by (restrictions imposed by) COVID-19 than others and that we should remain sensitive to this when we evaluate their research productivity, research methods, and their outputs. Because of these (ongoing) restrictions, many researchers may not have access to the same tools, methods, or platforms (in this case, complex, autonomous robots), and we should re-evaluate the way that “robot” research is being conducted. This may be of particular interest to researchers in Artificial Life, as it means that the use of simulations or virtual agents may, once again, be valued in these fields where they have, over time, fallen out of favour or have not been granted the space over other methods. So for ALifers who may be interested in expanding their dissemination or research options, it is plausible that the HRI community may be looking for researchers like us to help them give a (semi-)fresh lens to their research.

One interesting standout at this year’s conference was the number, and diversity, of social events on offer. These included virtual laboratory tours (via slides and videos, although a VR-component could have been very cool), a yoga session, a Dungeons & Dragons one-shot campaign, a Judo workshop(!) and a karaoke night, where attendees were asked to partake in karaoke virtually. While I commend the idea, I did not attend that particular event, so I have no idea how well it would have transposed in a virtual setting. Nonetheless, I wanted to make mention of these social events as it is clear that many communities, like ours, are attempting to capture the social component of conferences; and are finding incredibly quirky and creative ways to go about it.

One additional note is that the conference, as I believe it has done for a few years, also offers a “fee waiver” option for first-time attendees, students, or researchers from a selection of socio-economic backgrounds. While many conferences offer reduced/waived fees for the latter two, it was my first time seeing waived fees for first-time attendees. This is a great marketing tool for HRI: expanding the network and grabbing the attention of researchers who may, otherwise, not have been interested in attending, and who may find ways to contribute to the field in the future.

Overall, HRI was a great conference despite the (poor) platform it was hosted on. While I don’t necessarily believe that it would be relevant to all ALifers, it seems like the research methods for HRI research could be swinging back in the direction of simulations and virtual agents. If HRI offer a “fee waiver” option next year (and a virtual option, too), I would encourage ALifers to take a look at attending - and perhaps even finding ways where your current work might fit into the world of human-robot interactions.



