# (TODO) Results of the Fiction Science Contest
by Lana Sinapayen

When I first thought of doing the Fiction Science contest, I knew what the goal would be. You know when your code is not running and you find 10 old, unrelated, and so far undetected bugs before solving the real issue? The real bug was only a useful pretext: if you look for problems, you will find them. I wanted to create an occasion for science to find undetected bugs in its commonly accepted assumptions. I had no idea of what topic to choose, but thankfully my biologist colleague was inspired and that is how we came with the idea of fictional viruses hopping from the biological to the artificial world and vice versa. I recruited the famous-but-anonymous neuro-blogger and twitter critic @Neuroskeptic as a 3rd judge and we launched the contest.

We received 11 entries, 1 of which was generated by an AI.
A recurrent topic in many entries was mRNA sequencing. Our participants imagined ways to exploit vulnerabilities in the computers used to analyse data from viruses: as the most obvious entry point of outside information, sequencing was a prime candidate for malicious tinkering. But some entries also wondered if natural evolution could cause feedback loops between computers and biological organisms. And finally, some entries imagined less nefarious motives for cross-domain infection: research!

Click here to see the ranking and read the entries: https://sites.google.com/view/fiction-science/archives?authuser=0

And let us know what you think: far fetched? Plausible? Threatening? Did any of them changed the way you think about a given phenomenon? And of course, if you publish your impressions (blog / twitter / paper...) or have your own story to submit, we'll be glad to add the link to this page. Contact fiction.for.science {at} gmail.com

Finally, congratulations to the winners:

- Romain from France for "Bio-infection through computer virus heavily suspected", winner for Prompt 1: First Case of Biological Organism Infected by Computer Virus.  

- Claus ARANHA and Diego ARANHA (No relation) for "Nature finds a way", winner for Prompt 2: Computer Virus Nicknamed 'Akabake' Believed to Have Biological Origins. This submission got the highest score all categories.
