# Book Review: Cybernetics (or, Control and Communication in the Animal and the Machine)
__by [Imy Khan](http://twitter.com/imy_tk)__

This book has been on my reading list for some time, and I had hoped that volunteering a review back in December would force my hand into reading it. Alas, carving out the time for it was tricker than I had hoped, and while I’m still not through it (I’m writing this review only six chapters in), I wanted to contribute this short piece in the hope that it might inspire others to pick up and read this, quite frankly, fascinating and insightful book.

A quick primer on cybernetics (though I’m sure many of us may be familiar with the term). Cybernetics is a field which concerns itself with regulatory, self-governing systems, attempting to provide a theoretical framework for the regulatory mechanisms and feedback loops that drive system stability or auto/self-regulation. While these systems were originally described from a biological perspective (partially, at least, since Wiener takes the position that the biological “brain” is the primary controller of regulation), the cybernetics principles can be (and have been) applied to systems across numerous scales and fields. These include biology, neuroscience, sociology, engineering, economics, robotics, and artificial intelligence. Closer to the field of ALife, cybernetics has also inspired biologically-relevant theories of self-regulation, such as autopoiesis, enactivism, and viable systems models. Cybernetics as a field, then, is both wide-reaching and cross-disciplinary and has found both theoretical and practical applications across many domains. It is fascinating to think that this is an approach that was developed over 70 years ago, and one that is continually finding relevance in our work.

My reasons for reading this book are simple: the work that I have done (by proxy of the lab where I completed my PhD) has been inspired by cybernetics (as well as other fields). After several years of using, citing, and, at times, defending this approach, I decided that it was only fitting to go back and read some of the original literature on the area. 

To start, I have to say that this book is very dense. After a couple of introductory chapters, the book becomes quite heavy on mathematics very quickly - at times, there are several pages of mathematical equations all at once - but Weiner does an excellent job of narrating, commenting, and making analogies for the points he is putting forth. The mathematics is not unnecessarily verbose. On the contrary, Weiner is attempting (and, as it turns out, successful in doing so) to argue for a new perspective on communication (or information) theory as it relates both to animals and machines, drawing parallels between both. The explicit mathematical definitions, therefore, are used to strengthen this position. 

I had to constantly remind myself that this book (well, the first edition of this book) was written in 1948, as some of the points that Weiner describes were incredibly forward-thinking and almost predictive of what would unfold in the fields of artificial intelligence, computer vision, and neuroscience. For instance, in the chapter, “Gestalt and Universals”, Weiner discusses how we (animals) can identify and recognise objects using generalisable features While this chapter is light on the mathematical formalisms of these mechanisms, Weiner’s discussions of the (theoretical) mechanisms responsible for this generalisation have perhaps found a home in the field of computer vision. In another instance, in one of the supplementary chapters (published in 1961, that I had a brief read of), Weiner also discusses the potential dangers of machine automation and self-reproducing machines. I don’t want to spoil the contents of the book too much, but his views and seemingly-accurate predictions of some of the social and political problems that may arise from self-replicating machines is, in itself, reason to read this book.

One of my favourite chapters (so far) is the chapter on “Computing Machines and the Nervous System.” Weiner speaks of the “affective tone”, with descriptors of “pleasure” and “pain”, and how they can affect other processes responsible for self-organisation. He also talks about how all of these different affective tones are themselves regulated by an “affective tone totalizer”, and also describes how this plays out in biological systems (through hormonal modulation of the nervous system). What Weiner describes here is the role of “emotional regulation” in biological self-regulatory systems, which I, personally, found to be an interesting perspective. Juxtaposed against the theme of the rest of this book, which emphasises the machine-like processes of inputs, outputs, feedback loops and regulatory systems, the description of a very animalistic quality---emotion---as both a regulator and, itself, regulated, was surprising. To me, this highlighted that Weiner cared just as much about the processes associated with the “animal” as he did the “machine”: a refreshing take in an era where strictly-computational approaches (such as those by von Neumann and Turing) were gaining prominence.

I briefly read some other reviews of this book before I wrote this review, and have seen people call its contents “disorganised” or “disjointed”. I certainly understand these points, but I respectfully disagree. As I mentioned above, Weiner is simultaneously attempting to define this new field of cybernetics, describe its potential applications across numerous domains, while also not shying away from his own opinions on certain matters. At least in my reading of this book, I get the sense that this was written by an incredible individual who is attempting to communicate their groundbreaking work to as many disciplines as possible. As we might all appreciate, interdisciplinary communication is hard work, and I do not hold that against Weiner or this book.

Overall, whether or not your research is directly related to cybernetics or its tangential principles, I would highly recommend that this book finds its way onto your respective bookshelves. Oftentimes, I found that even reading a few pages would spark an idea or two in my head, giving me a wider appreciation of how we can think of (almost) everything in terms of feedback loops and self-organising systems. Others have called this book worthy of reading as a historical document if nothing else. I am inclined to agree. It is not a casual read by any means, but one that I wish I had read years ago. Some of the ideas and theories may have been better refined in the 70 years since its publication, but it is clear to see how this book and his later works were crucial in laying the groundwork for many theories and applications that we take for granted in our own research nowadays.
