# Paper Review - __On Modeling Life__ by Chris Adami (1994)
Paper Link: [Here](https://direct.mit.edu/artl/article-abstract/1/4/429/2236/On-Modeling-Life)
Review By [Imy Khan](https://twitter.com/Imy_TK).

This month, I spent a little bit of time digging into the Artificial Life journal archives with two aims: first, to get a better understanding of the type of reesarch that the artificial life field consisted of in the early years after its inception, and secondly, to find a paper that captures (in my view) the __essence__ of artificial life, as if to show to someone unaware of the field, "Hey, look, this is the kind of thing Artificial Life is interested in exploring."

[On Modeling Life](https://direct.mit.edu/artl/article-abstract/1/4/429/2236/On-Modeling-Life?redirectedFrom=fulltext), written by Chris Adami and published in 1994 in the Artificial Life journal, is one such paper. The title itself is a bold statement, sure to catch the eye of future readers (it caught mine). The paper puts forth a model of life consisting of three minimal characteristics - self-replication of information, bit-wise mutation of information, and an environment (landscape) of information - proposing that a system consisting of these can form the foundations of a (minimally-)living system, with good universal approximation. Adami puts forth theoretical and experimental results (using Tierra and Avida) in defense of this point. Though the entire paper is worthy of a read, I was particularly enticed by this notion that Darwininan evolution may not have been a continuous process, but may have been "punctuated": where there were periods of stasis followed by large evolutionary changes (this may have common knowledge to some, but was completely new information to me!). Assuming the minimal criteria for living systems used in the model, Adami presents further experimental results to support this notion. It is statatements and experimental results like these that truly capture the beauty of ALife, in my opinion.

As a general musing, I also appreciate the conciseness of the paper: at only 10 pages including all of the images and references, it's a paper you can do a first read of fairly swiftly to get a good grasp of the main ideas. Even [Karl Sims' paper in the same year](https://direct.mit.edu/artl/article-abstract/1/4/353/2234/Evolving-3D-Morphology-and-Behavior-by-Competition) was (only) 20 pages, with roughly half of the space occupied with images. In my view, at least, there seems to be more of a trend towards longer papers in recent years, but reading this paper made me feel a sense of aneomoia for much shorter, much more concrete papers.