# Course Review: Origins of Life (by Complexity Explorer - Santa Fe Institute) 
_By [Imy Khan](http://twitter.com/imy_tk)_

For a couple of years now, I have sought to improve my understanding of the fields of origins of life and astrobiology, as well as refresh (and/or improve) my working knowledge of physics and chemistry as they relate to living systems. This desire was both a personal one (I think origins of life and astrobiology as research areas are just cool) as well as “professional”, given the overlap between those fields and Artificial Life. 

Many readers may agree when I say that diving into and (attempting to) teach yourself new areas can be a daunting and overwhelming endeavour. When it comes to learning about new areas and disciplines (often outside our areas of expertise), knowing where to start or what the foundations of the field are, and then to source the “best” material to learn the new concepts and theory, is a task that perhaps leads many people to either give up their attempts to learn altogether (or, alternatively, creates gaps in their foundational knowledge that need to be filled in later on). Herein lies the value of structured courses, in my humble opinion, where these problems are solved by experts in the area of interest. So, I was quite excited when I found that Complexity Explorer (Santa Fe Institute) was running an Origins of Life online course which started in June 2022. It was even nicer knowing that the course was free of charge (which, to the best of my knowledge, is true of all Complexity Explorer courses).

I chose to write this short review of this course for the ALife community, as I suspect I may not be the only person who may be interested in better understanding OoL/astrobiology or some of the related disciplines. In fact, studying “origins of life” isn’t strictly correct. Rather, what we are doing (I think) is learning about concepts and principles from other disciplines - including the earth sciences, biology, chemistry, and physics - as they relate to the emergence of the properties of what we call “life”, and then to question, explore, and try to figure out what the minimal (biological, chemical and physical) conditions might be in order for “life” to emerge. Or, what “life” would look like if those properties or parameters were different. That second point might make the tie-in to ALife a little clearer…! (There may be more to it, but so far, these are the things that have me interested in OoL research.)

I have been apprehensive about committing to online courses in the past, particularly as so many currently exist that it’s sometimes difficult to separate the good from the…less-good. But since Complexity Explorer/SFI have a reputation for delivering high-quality courses, I decided to take the plunge and commit to the course for the entire duration (11 weeks). Despite the fact that I have no formal background and very limited exposure to anything related to OoL/astrobiology, I have found this course to be a very accessible entry point into this field of research. The course instructors (Prof. Chris Kempes (SFI), Prof. Sarah Maurer (CCSU), and instructor Maria Kalambokidis (UMN)) have done an excellent job of putting together a well-thought-out roadmap of content in both the weekly topics (each week’s subtopics are carefully crafted and structured to build on top of each other) as well as throughout the course itself. Lectures have, so far, been easily digestible, well-presented, coherent and succinct (the length of each lecture is anywhere between 8-25ish minutes each). The instructors have also been thoughtful enough to provide a comprehensive list of references and supplementary material related to each week’s topics, addressing the previously-described problem of not knowing where to start when it comes to finding information on new topics. Crucially, the course has no prerequisites, though they do mention that it may be useful to have some background knowledge of algebra, introductory chemistry and biology. Though I have little knowledge of chemistry, I have not been overwhelmed by the chemistry-heavy units so far, but rather, found them fascinating and insightful. Perhaps this is indicative of how thoughtful and meticulous the instructors have been in choosing how to collate and present the information.

In terms of time commitments, I have been able to watch all the lectures, read the material, and make study notes accordingly within 3-4 hours per week. This is a fair commitment, in my view and like with any course, I suspect you will get out what you put in. If you are interested in learning about (or improving your basic knowledge about) OoL concepts and theories, but don’t know where to start, then this course gets my recommendation. There are (optional) assessments and quizzes to test comprehension, with a certificate of completion if you meet a certain mark threshold, but the course can also be completed without submitting any of those. Nevertheless, if you can carve out some time (3-4hrs per week) to commit to it, I think it will reward you accordingly. At the time of writing, I am on week 3 of 11 (this week’s topic is “Chemical Commonalities” which, amongst other things, will discuss some of the common chemical properties across different living systems, DNA as information, and chemical configurations) and I fully intend on continuing this momentum for the entire course. 

Overall, this course is playing its role as an introductory course brilliantly, giving me a stronger understanding and appreciation of some of the core concepts and principles of the field. As a result, I suspect this will become a jumping-off point for me to be able to confidently dive into OoL research in the future with a more informed perspective.
