# Book Review: Complexity Explorer: The Study of Emergence
Book by Henrik Jeldtoft Jensen, Imperial College London

Short review by [Imy Khan](http://imytk.co.uk)

As someone who has no formal training or education in complexity science - instead, attempting to teach myself its principles and mathematical formalisms on-the-fly - I have always felt like my knowledge of it suffers from large holes, where people who have more of a formal background in this area would have no such issues. Many things in ALife can be fall under the study of complexity science - from cellular automata, swarm behaviours, social dynamics, neural networks - so it's safe to say that the study of complexity is a core theme in ALife research. If you are new to the field, you are bound to hear about someone referring to complexity (or "emergence")  almost-immediately. Despite the fact that my own research necessitates the study of emergent properties (of social systems), I still feel like I had a lot of work to do to bring my working knowledge of it all up to a level where it didn't feel so mediocre.

Over the Christmas period last year, I decided to pick up a book that might help me do that. After some research, I stumbled across [Complexity Science: The Study of Emergence](https://www.cambridge.org/us/universitypress/subjects/physics/statistical-physics/complexity-science-study-emergence?format=HB&isbn=9781108834766), by Professor Henrik Jeldtoft Jensen at Imperial College London, where he heads up the Centre for Complexity Science. 

Though I am only about 4 or 5 chapters in to this book so far, I believe it is worthy of a recommendation to a broader audience. Prof. Jensen does an excellent job of holding your hand right from the very beginning, stripping away all of the complexity (pardon the pun), helping the reader understand the underlying principles of complex systems, why we want to study them, and how to think about "emergence". All of this is done assuming minimal background in math to start with: the formalisms get layered on over time. But by the time you get to that point, you should have (or, indeed, the book aims to provide you with) a good enough understanding of the underlying principles that, no matter what your level of understanding of math might be, you would be able to follow along.

There are many things I enjoy about this textbook. Many books claim to be "introductory" textbooks, but, in my opinion, this one really is. The writing style is accessible without being patronising, removed of unnecessary jargon, reducing the barrier of entry for anyone who might want to learn more about these topics. Each chapter also ends with some "homework" material, providing an additional pedadogical aspect that you can work through yourself, or even use for students that you might be teaching. What I really enjoy about this book is that it doesn't just lock itself in to a specific discipline. When it discusses the study of "emergence", it considers these phenomena across all different scales and different disciplines. That means, regardless of your background, you are sure to find examples of complexity or emergence that feel intuitive to you. Overall, I highly recommend this book to anyone who is interested in learning about complexity science, and its underlying principles and formalisms, right from the beginning, or anyone who is teaching students who might be interested in these topics!
